Women took to the streets from Buenos Aires to Kabul to Bangkok on Wednesday to mark International Women's Day and defend rights that are coming under increasing attack. In the Argentine capital, thousands of demonstrators filled streets and public spaces in Buenos Aires once again to call for justice for cases of femicide and demand equal rights, among other things. After a central rally in downtown Buenos Aires, beginning at 4pm, the march was divided on party lines, with one group heading towards the National Congress building and the other streaming towards the Plaza de Mayo. As part of the demonstrations in front of the National Congress by the Kirchnerite organisations, a group of women demonstrated against the alleged "proscription" facing Vice-President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, a reference to the former president's corruption sentence last year. Dressed in black and with their faces covered, the group stood outside Congress and held up signs with the word "proscription" branded on them. Fernández de Kirchner has been disqualified by the courts for life from holding public office for her alleged crimes, as well as being sentenced to seven years in prison. Her conviction has not yet been confirmed by a higher court. One demonstrators held a sign that read "CFK 2023" and in a video circulating on social networks, the group could be heard chanting: "Cristina corazón, acá tenés las pibas para la liberación" ("Cristina my heart, here are the girls for the liberation"). Blocks away at the Plaza de Mayo, leftist organisations called for a world free of gender violence and claimed solidarity with the Peruvian people protesting against President Dina Boluarte.  Women take the the strees around the world The scenes in Buenos Aires were repeated across the globe. Continents away in Afganistan, where the Taliban government is banning of women from universities, Iran is repression the Mahsa Amini protests, and new United States restrictions on abortion rights and the Ukraine war's impact on women, there are many reasons to protest worldwide. In Taliban-ruled Afghanistan, which the United Nations called the "most repressive country in the world" for women's rights, AFP saw around 20 women holding a rare protest in the capital Kabul. Thousands of women also took part in rallies across Pakistan, despite efforts by authorities to block them. Marches also took place in Thailand and Indonesia, where a few dozen women gathered in front of the country's parliament to urge lawmakers to pass a long-awaited bill to protect domestic workers and some chanted "long live Indonesian women." In Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy praised women for taking a central role in defending their country against Russia's invasion. He thanked "all women who work, teach, study, rescue, heal, fight – fight for Ukraine." To mark International Women's Day, capitals across the world are hosting marches, rallies and demonstrations, including Madrid, where broad tree-lined boulevards are regularly packed with a sea of purple, a colour associated with women's rights in the country. Global progress on women's rights is "vanishing before our eyes," UN chief António Guterres warned on Monday, saying gender equality would take another three centuries to achieve. "Women's rights are being abused, threatened, and violated around the world," he added, pointing to Afghanistan, where "women and girls have been erased from public life."  –– TIMES/AFP/PERFIL