Lionel Messi is set to make his first appearance for Argentina since lifting the World Cup after he was called up by coach Lionel Scaloni on Friday for friendly matches later this month. Scaloni named a 35-man squad that included all 26 players that won the World Cup in Qatar in December, beating France on penalties after a sensational final that ended 3-3 after extra-time. Recent £100 million Chelsea signing Enzo Fernández, Manchester United's combative centre-back Lisandro Martínez and Aston Villa's Emiliano Martínez, who was earlier this week named the best goalkeeper for 2022 by FIFA, are also in the squad. Villarreal's Giovanni Lo Celso returned to the squad after missing the World Cup through injury, while uncapped teenage Spanish-born Manchester United starlet Alejandro Garnacho is also included in a Scaloni squad for the second time. Garnacho has made a meteoric rise at United this season, making 27 appearances for Eric ten Hag's side, including 10 starts, and scoring four goals, the latest of which was the decisive strike in the Red Devils' 3-1 FA Cup last 16 victory over West Ham on Wednesday. Other uncapped young talents with limited senior first team experience have also earned a call-up including Manchester City midfielder Máximo Perrone, 20, and attacking midfielders Facundo Buonanotte, 18, of Brighton and Inter Milan's Valentín Carboni, 17. They have made a combined 10 senior appearances for their European clubs. Argentina will host Panama on March 23 in Buenos Aires and then Curaçao in Santiago del Estero five days later. Messi had been widely expected to retire from international duty after finally, at 35, leading his country to World Cup glory. But he said at the time that he still wanted to play matches with his team-mates as a world champion.  Squad: Goalkeepers: Emiliano Martínez (Aston Villa), Gerónimo Rulli (Ajax), Franco Armani (River Plate). Defenders: Juan Foyth (Villarreal), Gonzalo Montiel (Sevilla), Marcos Acuña (Sevilla), Nahuel Molina (Atlético Madrid), Nehuén Pérez (Udinese), Germán Pezzella (Betis), Cristian Romero (Tottenham), Nicolás Otamendi (Benfica), Lisandro Martínez (Manchester United), Nicolás Tagliafico (Olympique Lyon) y Lautaro Blanco (Elche). Midfielders: Leandro Paredes (Juventus), Guido Rodríguez (Betis), Enzo Fernández (Chelsea), Máximo Perrone (Manchester City), Exequiel Palacios (Bayer Leverkusen), Rodrigo De Paul (Atlético de Madrid), Facundo Buonanotte (Brighton), Alexis Mac Allister (Brighton), Thiago Almada (Atlanta United), Giovani Lo Celso (Villarreal), Emiliano Buendía (Aston Villa) and Valentín Carboni (Internazionale). Forwards: Lionel Messi (PSG), Paulo Dybala (AS Roma), Lautaro Martínez (Inter), Ángel Di María (Juventus), Ángel Correa (Atlético de Madrid), Julián Álvarez (Manchester City), Alejandro Garnacho (Manchester United), Nicolás González (Fiorentina) and Alejandro Gómez (Sevilla).