Uruguayan President Luis Lacalle Pou delivered forceful remarks at the CELAC summit on Tuesday, criticising members of the regional grouping that he said “do not respect democracy or human rights.” The centre-right leader, 49, used a speech to the forum to slam the “ideological” nature of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC) meeting and call for the creation of a new regional free-trade zone. Voicing his discontent at the presence of officials from Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela, Lacalle Pou decried the fact that the CELAC summit’s declaration "speaks of respect for democracy, human rights and care for institutions,” but “there are clearly countries here … that do no respect institutions, democracy or human rights.” Lacalle Pou, who said views were being defined by ideology, called on his fellow member stations in the 33-country bloc to stop talking and take “action” on trade. "Isn't it time to be sincere with relations and for CELAC to promote a free-trade zone ... from Mexico to the south of South America? Can we not move in this direction?” he asked. "We have the possibility to trade freely. Many of our economies are complementary, and I am sure we could make progress," Lacalle Pou said, at a time when his country is under pressure from its fellow members in the Mercosur trade bloc. Lacalle Pou is pushing for Uruguay to negotiate a trade deal with China without the approval of its partners in the bloc Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay, a move that the trio says is against Mercosur rules. The Uruguayan leader, one of the few centre-right leaders to attend the summit in Buenos Aires, went on to criticise the "ideological” nature of the summit. He did, however, acknowledge the importance of regional integration and move to condemn the assault on Brasilia earlier this month by a group of pro-Jair Bolsonaro supporters. "I have heard speeches that I agree with completely, others that I agree with half of them, and others that I agree with almost nothing. But I understand that our nations have to be linked," he said. Earlier on, President Alberto Fernández had indicated his backing for the three nations and their leaders, slamming the “blockades” enforced by the United States and other countries, saying they hit “peoples, not governments.” However, the Peronist leader then made eyebrows by observing that “all those who are here have been elected by their peoples” – a comment fiercely criticised by opposition leaders who pointed to questioned elections in Nicaragua and Venezuela, as well as the Communist government in Cuba.  – TIMES/NA