Fugitive Mapuche leader Facundo Jones Huala has been arrested by police in El Bolsón, the Río Negro Province government has confirmed. In a statement, Governor Arabela Carreras’ administration said that the indigenous activist had been detained in the early hours of Monday morning by police in the La Esperanza neighbourhood of the Patagonian town. According to reports, Jones Huala was drunk and was found hiding in the barbecue area of the residency he had broken into at around 4am. He put up no resistance when police approached him. Jones Huala, 36, has been on the run from police for more than 11 months. The leader of the Mapuche Ancestral Resistance (RAM) group faces various allegations against him in the courts, while Chile is also seeking his extradition for unserved jail time relating to offences dating back to 2013. The arrest came after a tip-off from a local resident. "There had been rumours from people who had identified him in the area for several months and we were finally able to find him. He was in a state of inebriation, in good physical condition, alone, and in hiding," Governor Carreras told the TN news channel in an interview after the operation. The provincial government said in a statement that it was working with the local and federal judicial authorities on the next “procedural steps to be taken." Jones Huala could still face additional changes related to alleged offences committed in the region, local news outlets reported. Jones Huala is the subject of an Interpol blue alert, which is aimed at obtaining information on a person's identity, whereabouts or criminal activities in relation to a criminal investigation. "The Federal Court of Bariloche is currently communicating with the Chilean court that issued the alert, so that within hours it can inform whether it will transform it into a red alert to enable the international arrest and the corresponding extradition request," said Carreras’ government.  Arrest, allegations Francisco Facundo Jones Huala has been a fugitive from the Chilean justice system since February 11, 2022. He was convicted in 2018 by the Chilean justice system as the perpetrator of an arson attack of the Pisu Pisué hacienda located in the commune of Río Bueno, in the Los Ríos Region of Chile and for the illegal possession of firearms, offences both committed in 2013. The Mapuche leader was arrested in Argentina in June 2017 after two years on the run as a fugitive. Following his arrest, then-president Mauricio Macri ordered his extradition after the Supreme Court upheld Chile's request for extradition. He was imprisoned in Temuco, southern Chile, in 2018, but – in response to an appeal for legal protection filed by his defence team – the RAM leader was released on parole on January 21, 2022. He took up residence in a Mapuche community in Temuco until his release was finally challenged by the Chilean government and his conviction upheld by the Chilean Supreme Court, which ordered him to return to prison in February 2022. He has been on the run and a fugitive until his arrest in Patagonia this morning.  – TIMES/NA