Argentina, Chile, Uruguay and Paraguay on Tuesday officially launched their joint bid to stage the FIFA World Cup tournament in 2030, exactly 100 years after the event was first held in South America. "We are convinced that FIFA has an obligation to honour the memory of those who organised the first World Cup," said Alejandro Domínguez, president of CONMEBOL, South American football's governing body, at a photo-call in Buenos Aires. Dominguez was attending the bid's launch event at the Argentine Football Association's (AFA) headquarters in Ezeiza, on the outskirts of the capital. The so-called "Mundial Centenario," or Centenary World Cup project faces strong competition for hosting rights. FIFA is due to choose a host in 2024 for the 2030 tournament. The South Americans' main challenge is a joint bid from Spain, Portugal and Ukraine, which has the backing of European football's governing body UEFA. Saudi Arabia is also considering bidding for the right to stage the tournament, lining up an ambitious bid with Egypt and Greece. Tipping the scales against the South American bid is the fact that the next World Cup, due to be staged in 2026, will also be held in the Americas, with games split between the United States, Mexico and Canada. In the 2026 games, the number of competing nations will increase from 32 to 48, starting with an enlarged group stage. Back in December, Domínguez said FIFA should honour the legacies of South American icons Pelé and Diego Maradona by awarding the centennial 2030 World Cup to the continent. "It is very important for them to come and play here. Uruguay is the first world champion, Argentina the last,", said Sebastián Bauzá, Uruguay's national sports secretary, as he spoke in front of dozens of directors and former players who are backing the bid. Paraguay's Sports Minister Diego Galeano Harrison said "the 100th anniversary World Cup" should be in South America. "It is a legitimate desire throughout the region. We have world champions. It is a big challenge. The first thing is to dream, believe and achieve it, with an appropriate and sustainable bid," said Alexandra Benado, Chile's sports minister. AFA president Claudio Tapia said that "history and passion will give us the possibility of hosting the 2030 World Cup." Uruguay was the first-ever world champion in 1930, beating Argentina 4-2 in the final of the 13-team World Cup staged in Montevideo. Argentina are the reigning champions, having triumphed over France in Qatar in December.  Fernández calls for Bolivia to join bid Before the press conference, the option to add a fifth nation to the staging line-up was raised by the Argentina's President Alberto Fernández, who tweeted: "This candidacy is for the whole continent. That's why I would like and I'm going to propose that our brother country Bolivia be part of this dream." "The opening match of 2030 should be played in Uruguay," Tapia proposed on his own initiative during the conference. At present, the plan calls for  the first match would be played at the Monumental in Buenos Aires, with the final at the Centenario in Montevideo. Domínguez said the bid "will not be a competition to see who puts up the most money or infrastructure," pointing out that "this is an iconic bid for a historic event." There have been 22 World Cup staged so far and South America has hosted it five times: Uruguay-1930, Brazil-1950, Chile-1962, Argentina-1978 and Brazil-2014. The region's achievements are even greater, with 10 title wins: Uruguay in 1930 and 1950, Argentina in 1978, 1986 and 2022 and Brazil in 1958, 1962, 1970, 1994 and 2002.  –– TIMES/AFP