Carnival 2023 started last Saturday, February 4, but Argentines across the country will keep the party alive every weekend until the upcoming national holidays on February 20 and 21. With every weekend of the month dedicated to King Momo, the Times has compiled a guide for joining the festivities in the nation's capital. In Buenos Aires City, though a smaller celebration than other provinces in the country, you can find a bit of everything. Across the capital, more than 100 murgas (a coordinated style of dance and music popular during carnaval season), will be performed, with many neighbourhoods presenting their own distinct local troupe. Across every barrio, there will be lots of music, dancing, options for street food, and of course, drinks. Performances will take place on Saturdays from 7pm to 2am and Sundays from 7pm to midnight, until the end of the season. You don't want to miss the closing party of Carnaval on Sunday, March 6, from 3pm to 10pm at Avenida de Mayo, between Bolívar and Avenida 9 de Julio. The porteño party will boast a parade of murgas, food stalls, a children's show by Panceta y Los Papafritas, a DJ set from the famous Fiesta Bresh and a closing performance by the singer Karina La Princesita. During the day, you can also see the photo exhibition No me sueltes Carnaval, which traces the history of the popular tradition. But you don't have to wait until March to get the party started. You can check out parades at one of 35 neighbourhoods running every weekend. Corsos en Buenos Aires, neighborhood by neighborhood: Agronomía: Navarro E/ Bolivia y Artigas. Almagro 1: Av. Díaz Vélez E/ Gascón and Medrano. Almagro 2: Lambaré E/ Sarmiento and Perón. Barracas: Orma E/ Luna and Magaldi. Also in Parque España, on Avenida Caseros 1500. Boedo 1: Av. Boedo E/ Av. Independencia and Av. San Juan. Boedo 2: Av. Belgrano E/ Colombres and Maza. Caballito: Plaza Irlanda, on Gaona 1400. Colegiales: Polideportivo Colegiales. Flores: Follow E/ Neuquén and Av. Gaona. La Boca: Avenida Patricios E/Iriarte and Pedro de Mendoza. Liniers 1: Tuyutí E/Carhue and Cosquín. Liniers 2: Martínez de Hoz E/ J. León Suárez and Manuel Arce. Lugano 1: Av. Fernández de la Cruz E/ Lisandro de la Torre and Cañada de Gómez. Lugano 2: Eva Perón between Araujo and Basualdo. Lugano 3: Plaza Unidad Nacional (Murguiondo and Delfín Gallo). Mataderos: Av. Alberdi E/ Escalada and Araujo. On the Anfiteatro de Mataderos the course will be on Avenida Directorio 6200. Palermo 1: Darwin E/ Cabrera and Gorriti. Palermo 2: Plaza Unidad Latinoamerica (Av. Medrano, Costa Rica, Francisco A. de Figueroa, el Salvador). Parque Chacabuco: Anfiteatro Parque Chacabuco (AV Curapaligüe and Asamblea). Parque Patricios: Av. Caseros E/ La Rioja and 24 de Noviembre. Parque Saavedra: Av. García del Río E/ Freire and Zapiola. Paternal 1: Plaza Roque Sáenz Peña (Av. Juan B Justo, Av. Boyacá, Remedios de E. de S. Martín, Andrés Lamas). Paternal 2: Maturín E/ Nicasio Oroño and Seguí. Piedrabuena: 2 de Abril de 1982 E/Piedra Buena and Montiel. Playón San Lorenzo: Playón San Lorenzo (Av. La Plata 1700). Pompeya: Av. La Plata E/ Av. F. de la Cruz and Av. Caseros. Saavedra: Av. Balbín E/ Correa and Arias. Also in the Parque Saavedra, right on the corner of Avenida Balbín and Ramallo. San Cristóbal: Plaza Martín Fierro (La Rioja, Barcala, Gral Urquiza). San Telmo: Anfiteatro Parque Lezama (Av. Brasil and Balcarce). Villa Crespo: Av. Corrientes E/ Scalabrini Ortíz and Julián Álvarez. Villa del Parque: Cuenca E/ Baigorria and Marcos Sastre. Villa Devoto: Plaza Riccheri (Av. F. Beiró, Desaguadero, J. P Varela, Quevedo). Villa Pueyrredón: Av. Mosconi E/ Bolivia and Terrada. Villa Real: Plaza Las Toscaneras (Moliere, José Pedro Varela, Virgilio, Ramón Lista). Villa Urquiza: Av. Triunvirato E/ Monroe y Olazábal.