Diplomatic envoys from the United States and Ukraine united in Buenos Aires on Thursday to condemn Russia’s invasion of the Eastern European nation and denounce Vladimir Putin’s “lies” about the ongoing conflict. Speaking one day before the first anniversary of the invasion, United States Ambassador to Argentina Marc Stanley hit out at the Kremlin and called for solidarity between countries to tackle Russian aggression. He went on to commend President Alberto Fernández’s government for its diplomatic stances against Moscow. However, the envoy said that more could be done. “Argentina has correctly, in my view, taken tough votes in the UN system to call out Russian aggression and stand up for Ukraine. As Russia continues its brutal war of choice, more is needed. Democratic governments must stand together to uphold democratic values and human rights,” he stated. Stanley’s speech, delivered at the central headquarters of Instituto Cultural Argentino NorteAmericano, or the North American Cultural Institute of Argentina, came after the envoy had unveiled an exhibit of photographs highlighting the resilience of Ukrainians throughout the year-long war. Marking the dual observance of the anniversary of the Ukrainian invasion and a celebration of 200 years of bilateral relations between the United States and Argentina, Stanley emphasised the importance of democracies supporting each other across the globe. Though he indicated he was not specifically calling for Argentina to do more, he pointed to comments from top German and Japanese officials during recent visits to Buenos Aires that stressed the importance of Latin American nations doing more to support Ukraine. In Argentina, Stanley said that denouncements of what he called Putin’s lies –– including a recent statement in which he referred to Ukrainians as “Neo-Nazis” –– are of critical importance. “It's incumbent on both of our leadership of our governments to let people know that this is BS,” he declared. In Latin America, with such distance from the conflict, Stanley stressed the value of educating populations about the war. “I can't tell Argentina what to do, but I would love to see Zelensky address legislatures in Argentina and Brazil and other countries in Latin America so that there's a nexus, you know, sometimes people feel isolated in South America. And I think that Ukraine, and the rest of us could bring this home to the peoples of Latin America as they understand,” he said. Still, he commended Argentina for “setting the standard in Latin America for standing up against bullies” and “showing leadership in condemning Russia time after time.” The ambassador also commented on recents remarks made by Russia’s Foreign Minister Serguéi Lavrov, who expressed a desire to tour the region next month. “I can tell you that he would not be well received in this country, because he's got blood on his hands,” Stanley assured. “I just hope countries not only in Latin America, but around the world, don't fall for this cynical attempt to try to legitimise the bad acts that Russia is engaging in.” Argentine officials have not commented on a potential visit by the Russian official to Buenos Aires. Stanley, for his part, alluded to the importance of every country taking a stand against Russia. “We're all part of the UN, we're all part of the world community of conscience. By not giving into ‘This is hurting the economy, so therefore, it's OK not to hold Putin accountable,’ that's just not good for anybody.”  Sanctions and aid Sergei Nebrat, the chargé d'affaires of the Embassy of Ukraine in Buenos Aires, was more specific in his requests from Fernández’s government. He directly called for Argentina to be the first Latin American country to provide sanctions against Russia, specifying agricultural and energy embargos against the Eurasian continent. “Sanctions work,” Nebrat emphasised, responding to Putin’s recent claim that Russia’s economy beat expectations and shrunk minimally in the face of brutal sanctions. “If there’s no money for Russia, there's no money for this war.” Nebrat also suggested Argentina send monetary aid to Ukraine, and though he conceded the difficulty of closing the Russian Embassy in Argentina, pointed to European countries who have cancelled many diplomatic visas for Russian diplomats. Ukraine, he said, is not only fighting to “defend our houses, our friends, and for our own land,” but also for all countries. Describing the conflict as an “imperialist war,” Nebrat said his country needs the support of all democracies to maintain democracy across the world. The chargé d'affaires thanked the support of allies in Europe, the United States and Argentina, as well as that of the Ukrainian community in Argentina that numbers upwards of 400,000. The Ukrainian community in Argentina will mobilise for a march on the Russian Embassy in Buenos Aires tomorrow to mark the first anniversary of the conflict in Eastern Europe.